Jeff with a big shooter his channel
thanks for tuning in today I took a few
days off since the legislature is out of
session we don't have to babysit the
politicians from usurp an hour right so
I came out to put up some new target
frames take a look at that if you've
been following the channel at all you
know that it very seldom looks that nice
usually it is all torn up from rounds
going through it and sometimes we get a
little bit carried away with the
explosives so we've got a brand-new back
stock for the first time in a long time
and one of the questions I get more than
any are what is your back start made
oven is it something that I can
replicate at home so while I'm cleaning
up before i stop perforating that thing
I'll give you a tour of my back stock
stick around
so this is our short-range backstop this
is the one that we use for a submachine
gun tactical carbine handgun and to a
site in an occasional hunting rifle
we've got this range staked off at three
five seven 10 15 25 50 and 100 yards and
it's to assimilate the main criminal
justice Academy's course the
qualification course so it's fairly one
you specific range we've got we've got
several here on site and I'll show you
some of those at another time you may
have seen them on some early videos but
for this range since we use it as a
multi-purpose as well what we've done is
we've hinged this so with a rope we can
actually lift this up and right out of
the way and it extends all the way
straight up so it allows us to do some
shotgun shooting do some binaries
whatever it is that we're using when we
don't want to ruin this like buckshot
and wads and that type of thing till it
gets it right out of the way now what
you see behind here is called mill felt
and I don't know if you have a lot of
paper mills in your area or if you have
mill felt available but what this does
is act as a buffer between the dirt pile
and the target frame and the shooter
there are two layers of it and it's
about maybe six inches apart of dead
space so when you shoot around from your
perspective this way it goes through the
targets through two layers of mill felt
and hits the sand behind it which will
go around and I'll show you in a second
because we shoot in the winter we have
frozen ground a lot and it's not
uncommon to have ricochets come back and
we want to do anything that we can to
avoid anything that's avoidable
obviously so with the mill felt by the
time it goes through it expends a lot of
energy hits the sand even if
the grounds frozen and and bounces back
it's very unlikely that it's going to
get through two layers of mill felt
especially with the dead air let's take
a look behind the felt and behind the
target frame that's where the magic
happens this is the rear of the impact
area as you can see that's a big pile of
sand there are 40 tractor trailer tires
Barry as we laid down each tire we
filled it with dead sand as well as the
40 tires there are also 50 yards of sand
piled up in here as well and it's
important to put sand in front of your
tires as well as over the top and inside
of them because that hard rubber can can
certainly initiate ricochets as well so
you want to make sure that the tie is it
to the back of the impact area so that
they expel all of their energy in the
sand and just use the tires for a little
bit of extra stopping power let's take a
look at the side so you've seen the
front and you've seen the back now this
is the side it's not only wide it's not
only tall but it but it's very very
thick it's very deep it's 15 to 20 feet
wide at the base and then it tapers up a
little bit now this gives you a good
look at that buffer zone between the
mill felt in the actual impact area
where we've got the sand and then the
tires further back inside the sand and
in between the mill felt is the second
layer for the second layer of mill felt
so it may be a little bit over
engineered but in our business you can
never ever be too safe and the best
thing about this is it wasn't a lot of
money to put together you can probably
find no matter what your area somebody
willing to get rid of tires and also
dead sand is not very expensive it's
very very fine and very very loose as a
matter of fact what we're going to end
up doing this year when we build it up
just a little bit for housekeeping is
we're going to put some topsoil over it
and seed it and that
going to help kind of hold everything
all together with the root system of
course the front is never going to
totally seed in because we give it quite
a workout regularly but it will hold the
rest of the sand together so mihlfeld if
you do live in a mill area or a textile
area it's not it's not very expensive
they typically throw it away when they
are done with the run so if you get in
good with one of the mill workers you
can get this stuff if you don't live in
a mill area or even know what the hell
I'm talking about when I talk about mill
felt I'm sure that there's something
similar that you can use to so you can
have something that's very safe that's
very big that has several levels of
redundancy built into it and you don't
have to mortgage your home to do it so
this is how I built the backstop at our
small range now we have several other
ranges on site like we mentioned before
we've got a 400-yard range in the
process of going to 500 yards and then
we've got a kind of a one-mile jungle
walk that we're building with 10
different positions on it everything
from shotgun long range rifle pistol
shooting from a motor vehicle using a
motor vehicle as cover it in picture it
as a golf course but every T area is a
different shooting challenge instead of
golfing and a little bit later this year
tactus e is going to come up and visit
us and we'll have her take you through
that new range if it's already so if you
have a different way you designed your
range or improvements that you could
give me for mine please let me know in
the comments always looking to do things
better and I always learn a lot from you
so this brings me to the coolest part of
housekeeping and rebuilding the backstop
that's perforating it I'm going to make
some holes and I want to thank you for
stopping by I hope you enjoyed the video
if you did please like and share it with
your friends you can join in on the
conversation on facebook at facebook.com
slash gun test bids and until next time
have fun and be safe
you